The Project Gutenberg eBook of Faster Ways to Favorite Dishes with the New
Minute Tapioca, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Faster Ways to Favorite Dishes with the New Minute Tapioca

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: June 4, 2021 [eBook #65502]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FASTER WAYS TO FAVORITE DISHES
WITH THE NEW MINUTE TAPIOCA ***




                    _Faster Ways To Favorite Dishes
                               WITH THE_
                           New Minute Tapioca


                © 1934 G. F. Corp. 612 Ptd. in U. S. A.




         _H_EARD THE “GLAD NEWS” ABOUT THE NEW MINUTE TAPIOCA?


             Even lighter, more delicate tapioca desserts!

Imagine a tapioca cream pudding as creamy as a Bavarian, as rich as a
custard, as light as a whip! Imagine a tapioca fruit pudding more
delicately delicious than any you ever tasted in all your days! That’s
what you get when you make puddings with the NEW Minute Tapioca!


              Quicker, easier, and made with fewer dishes!

But texture is only _part_ of the story! For all these tempting Minute
Tapioca desserts can now be made in a fraction of the time, and with
much less bother, than they used to require. The New Minute Tapioca
cooks in 5 minutes, after the liquid scalds, instead of 15. It is
prepared with less work, and fewer dishes.


             New help, too, for scores of difficult dishes!

The recipes in this little book bring you the good news—starting with
the best and the easiest recipe for tapioca cream you’ve ever met.
You’ll find here more than a dozen grand cream desserts, full of real
honest-to-goodness home-made nourishment ... new fruit tapiocas for
every season ... new baked tapioca puddings ... and 19 recipes in which
Minute Tapioca acts as a “precision ingredient,” giving just the desired
texture or appearance—and a real margin of safety—to a lot of favorite
but often troublesome dishes from soup to pie.




              _A_ NEW QUICK RECIPE ... FOR AN OLD FAVORITE


MINUTE TAPIOCA CREAM

  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 or 2 egg yolks
  4 cups milk
  1 or 2 egg whites, stiffly beaten
  1 teaspoon flavoring

Combine[1] Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, egg yolk, and milk in top of
double boiler and stir enough to break egg yolk. Place over rapidly
boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 5 to 7 minutes), and cook
5 minutes[2], stirring frequently. Remove from boiling water. Fold a
small amount into egg white; add to remaining tapioca mixture and blend.
Cool—mixture thickens as it cools.[3] When slightly cool, add flavoring;
chill. Serve in sherbet glasses. Garnish with whipped cream and a few
berries or pieces of fruit, if desired. Serves 8.




                       ALL MEASUREMENTS ARE LEVEL

    [Illustration: _From one recipe ... make dozens of different,
    delicious desserts_
    Tapioca Creams ... see recipes on page 5
    Raspberry Fluff ... Peach Cream ... Chocolate Delight ... Currant
    Coconut]


RASPBERRY FLUFF

Fold whipped cream and slightly crushed fresh raspberries into Minute
Tapioca Cream. Pile in sherbet glasses. Garnish with a few whole or
crushed berries, and additional whipped cream.


MARVEL CREAM

Serve Minute Tapioca in sherbet glasses. Pour Log Cabin Syrup over
tapioca; sprinkle with coarsely chopped nut meats such as pecans,
walnuts, or blanched and toasted almonds.


PEACH CREAM

Fold whipped cream into Minute Tapioca Cream. Pile in sherbet glasses.
Serve with sauce of crushed, sweetened peaches, or sweetened peach
slices. Garnish with additional cream.


CHOCOLATE DELIGHT

Fold chocolate sauce into part of Minute Tapioca Cream. Serve in parfait
glasses, in alternate layers with plain Minute Tapioca Cream. Serve with
additional chocolate sauce.


CURRANT COCONUT

Serve Minute Tapioca Cream in sherbet glasses. Top generously with plain
or toasted Baker’s Coconut and cubes of currant jelly. Cover with
whipped cream before arranging topping, if desired.


ORANGE MINT

Fold whipped cream into Minute Tapioca Cream. Pile in sherbet glasses.
Garnish with additional whipped cream, and top with sections of orange,
and cubes of mint jelly or mint leaves.


STRAWBERRY RING

Serve mounds of Minute Tapioca Cream in sherbet glasses. Pour syrup from
sweetened, canned strawberries over tapioca; arrange ring of canned
strawberries around each mound.


PEANUT TRIFLE

Fold coarsely crushed peanut brittle into Minute Tapioca Cream. Serve in
sherbet glasses. Top with additional coarsely crushed peanut brittle,
and garnish with whipped cream, if desired.


PEPPERMINT TAPIOCA CREAM

  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ⅔ cup crushed peppermint candy
  1 egg yolk
  4 cups milk
  1 egg white, stiffly beaten

Combine Minute Tapioca, salt, candy, egg yolk, and milk in top of double
boiler and stir enough to break egg yolk. Place over rapidly boiling
water, bringing to scalding point (allow 5 to 7 minutes), and cook 5
minutes, stirring frequently. Remove from boiling water. Fold a small
amount into egg white; add to remaining tapioca mixture and blend.
Chill—mixture thickens as it cools. Serve in sherbet glasses with
chocolate sauce. Serves 8.


BUTTERSCOTCH CREAM

  4 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 egg yolks
  4 cups milk
  4 tablespoons butter
  ⅔ cup brown sugar, firmly packed
  2 egg whites, stiffly beaten

Combine Minute Tapioca, salt, egg yolks, and milk in top of double
boiler and stir enough to break egg yolks. Place over rapidly boiling
water, bring to scalding point (allow 5 to 7 minutes), and cook 5
minutes, stirring frequently. Remove from boiling water. Melt butter in
saucepan; add sugar and cook until sugar is completely dissolved and
mixture bubbles. Add to tapioca mixture and mix well. Fold a small
amount into egg whites; add to remaining tapioca mixture and blend.
Chill—mixture thickens as it cools. Serve plain or with cream. Serves 8.


CHOCOLATE TAPIOCA CREAM

  4 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 egg yolk
  2 squares Baker’s Unsweetened Chocolate, cut in pieces
  4 cups milk
  1 egg white, stiffly beaten
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, egg yolk, chocolate, and milk in
top of double boiler and stir enough to break egg yolk. Place over
rapidly boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 5 to 7 minutes),
and cook 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Remove from boiling water. Fold
in egg white. Cool—mixture thickens as it cools. When slightly cool, add
vanilla; chill. Serves 8.


BANANA TAPIOCA CREAM

  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 egg yolk
  4 cups milk
  1 egg white, stiffly beaten
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  2 bananas

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, egg yolk, and milk in top of double
boiler and stir enough to break egg yolk. Place over rapidly boiling
water, bring to scalding point (allow 5 to 7 minutes), and cook 5
minutes, stirring frequently. Remove from boiling water. Fold in egg
white. Add vanilla and chill—mixture thickens as it cools. Just before
serving, crush 1 banana and dice the other; then fold into tapioca
cream. Serves 8.


GINGER MINUTE TAPIOCA

  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  3 thin strips orange peel
  1 egg yolk
  2 cups milk
  ¼ cup orange juice
  1⅓ tablespoons ginger syrup
  2 tablespoons chopped preserved ginger
  1 egg white, stiffly beaten
  ¼ cup cream, whipped

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, orange peel, egg yolk, and milk in
top of double boiler and stir enough to break egg yolk. Place over
rapidly boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 3 to 5 minutes),
and cook 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Remove from boiling water and
remove peel. Add orange juice, ginger syrup, and preserved ginger. Fold
in egg white. Cool—mixture thickens as it cools. When cold, fold in
cream. Serves 6.


DATE TAPIOCA CREAM

  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 egg yolks
  4 cups milk
  ¾ cup finely cut dates
  2 egg whites, stiffly beaten
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, egg yolks, and milk in top of
double boiler and stir enough to break egg yolks. Place over rapidly
boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 5 to 7 minutes), and cook
5 minutes, stirring frequently. Add dates. Remove from boiling water.
Fold in egg whites. Cool—mixture thickens as it cools. When slightly
cool, add flavoring; chill. Garnish with dates. Serves 8.

    [Illustration: _Fruit tapioca puddings ... quicker to make ... more
    delicate_
    Chantilly Orange Tapioca ... see recipe on page 10]




     _F_RESH, CANNED, OR DRIED FRUIT CAN BE USED IN THIS RECIPE ...


FRUITED MINUTE TAPIOCA

  2 cups water
  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  Crushed fruit
  Lemon juice

Place water in top of double boiler and bring to a boil over direct
heat. Combine Minute tapioca, sugar, and salt; add gradually to water
and bring to a brisk boil, stirring constantly. Place immediately over
rapidly boiling water and cook 5 minutes,[4] stirring occasionally.
Remove from boiling water—mixture clears and thickens[5] as it cools.
When slightly cool, fold in fruit (crushed, ground, or forced through
sieve) and lemon juice, as directed on page 10.[6] Serve with cream, if
desired.


BERRY TAPIOCA

Use recipe for Fruited Minute Tapioca (page 9), folding 1½ to 2 cups
crushed, sweetened berries and 1 tablespoon lemon juice into slightly
cooled tapioca mixture. Chill. Serve in sherbet glasses. Serves 6.


APRICOT TAPIOCA

Use recipe for Fruited Minute Tapioca (page 9), folding 2 cups cooked
apricot pulp and 2 tablespoons lemon juice into slightly cooled tapioca
mixture. Chill. Serve in sherbet glasses. Serves 6.


PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA

Use recipe for Fruited Minute Tapioca (page 9), folding 2½ cups canned
crushed pineapple and 1 tablespoon lemon juice into slightly cooled
tapioca mixture. Chill. Serve in sherbet glasses. Serve with whipped
cream, if desired. Serves 8.


FIG TAPIOCA

Use recipe for Fruited Minute Tapioca (page 9), folding 2 cups cooked
figs, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind, and ½
teaspoon vanilla into slightly cooled tapioca. For 2 cups cooked figs,
cut ½ pound figs in fine pieces; add 2 cups water, cover, and simmer 15
minutes. Add 4 tablespoons sugar. Cool before folding into tapioca
mixture.


CHANTILLY ORANGE TAPIOCA

  1½ cups water
  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 cup orange juice
  1 tablespoon grated orange rind
  ½ cup cream, whipped

Place water in top of double boiler and bring to a boil over direct
heat. Combine dry ingredients; add gradually to water and bring to a
brisk boil, stirring constantly. Place immediately over rapidly boiling
water and cook 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from boiling
water—mixture clears and thickens as it cools. When slightly cool, add
orange juice and rind. Chill; fold in cream. Pile lightly in sherbet
glasses. Just before serving, garnish with very fine ¼-inch shreds of
orange rind, free from all white membrane. Serves 6.


SPRING FRUIT TAPIOCA

  2 cups water
  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  1¼ cups sugar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2½ cups rhubarb, cut in ½-inch pieces
  1 cup shredded fresh pineapple

Place water in top of double boiler and bring to a boil over direct
heat. Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, and rhubarb; add to water and
bring to a brisk boil, stirring constantly. Place immediately over
rapidly boiling water and cook 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove
from boiling water—mixture clears and thickens as it cools. When
slightly cool, fold in pineapple. Chill. Serve with plain or whipped
cream. Serves 8.


BAKED APPLE TAPIOCA

  3 cups water
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  3 tart apples, pared and sliced
  ½ cup Minute Tapioca
  1 cup light brown sugar, firmly packed
  1 teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon mace
  3 tablespoons melted butter

Combine water and lemon juice and pour over apples in greased shallow
baking dish. Cover and bake in moderate oven (375° F.) 15 minutes, or
until apples are partially cooked. Mix together Minute Tapioca, ¾ cup
sugar, salt, and mace. Sprinkle over apples, mixing thoroughly. Add
melted butter. Continue baking 10 minutes. Then stir well; sprinkle
remaining sugar over apple mixture, and bake 5 minutes longer. Serve hot
or cold with cream. Serves 6.


BAKED PEACH TAPIOCA PUDDING

  ⅓ cup Minute Tapioca
  4 tablespoons sugar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg
  2 cups canned sliced peaches, drained
  2½ cups water and peach juice
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  2 tablespoons melted butter

Combine ingredients in greased baking dish. Mix thoroughly. Bake in
moderate oven (375° F.) 30 minutes, or until done, stirring well every
10 minutes, and again when removing from oven. Serve warm or cold with
cream. Serves 8. For baked apricot tapioca pudding, substitute apricots
for peaches, and omit nutmeg.

    [Illustration: _Minute Tapioca baked puddings ... easiest and best
    of desserts ..._
    Baked Peach Tapioca Pudding ... see recipe on page 11]

    [Illustration: _19 popular dishes surer and easier ... thanks to
    Minute Tapioca_
    Fresh Strawberry Pie ... see recipe on page 14]


PIE CRUST

  2½ cups sifted flour
  ¼ teaspoon Calumet Baking Powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅔ cup cold shortening
  ⅓ cup cold water (about)

Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt, and sift again.
Cut in shortening until pieces are about size of small peas. Add water
(preferably ice water), a small amount at a time, mixing lightly with
fork. Handle as little as possible. Wrap in waxed paper; chill
thoroughly. Roll out on slightly floured board. Bake pastry in hot oven
(450° F.). Makes enough pastry for one 9-inch two-crust pie, or two
9-inch pie shells. Use ½ recipe for one pie shell only.


FRESH STRAWBERRY PIE

  2 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  1 cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon melted butter
  1 quart fresh strawberries, hulled and cut in pieces
  1 recipe Pie Crust (above)

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, butter and strawberries; let stand
15 minutes, or while pastry is being made. Line a 9-inch pie plate with
pastry rolled ⅛ inch thick. Fill with berry mixture. Moisten edge of
pastry with cold water. Adjust top crust. Bake in hot oven (450° F.) 15
minutes; then decrease heat to moderate (350° F.) and bake 20 minutes
longer, or until filling is cooked.


HUCKLEBERRY OR BLUEBERRY PIE

  2½ tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  ¾ cup granulated sugar
  ½ cup brown sugar, firmly packed
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon melted butter
  3 tablespoons water
  1 quart fresh huckleberries or blueberries
  1 recipe Pie Crust (above)

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugars, salt, butter, water, and berries; let
stand 15 minutes or while pastry is being made. Line a 9-inch pie plate
with pastry rolled ⅛ inch thick. Fill with berry mixture. Adjust top
crust. Moisten edge of pastry with cold water. Press edges together.
Trim off surplus pastry. Bake in hot oven (450° F.) 15 minutes; then
decrease heat to moderate (350° F.) and bake 20 minutes longer, or until
filling is cooked.


APRICOT PIE

  1½ tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon melted butter
  2 cups cooked dried apricots, drained
  ½ cup canned crushed pineapple, drained
  1 cup apricot juice
  ½ cup pineapple juice
  1 recipe Pie Crust (page 14)

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, butter, fruit, and fruit juices;
let stand 15 minutes, or while pastry is being made. Line a 9-inch pie
plate with pastry rolled ⅛ inch thick, allowing pastry to extend 1 inch
beyond edge. Fold edge back to form standing rim. Fill with apricot
mixture. Moisten edge of pie with cold water and arrange lattice of
pastry strips across top. Flute rim. Bake in hot oven (425° F.) 10
minutes; then decrease heat to moderate (350° F.) and bake 30 minutes
longer. Cool.


RED CHERRY PIE

  2½ tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  1 cup sugar
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon melted butter
  2½ cups canned seeded red cherries, drained
  1 cup cherry juice
  1 recipe Pie Crust (page 14)

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, butter, cherries, and cherry juice;
let stand about 15 minutes or while pastry is being made. Line a 9-inch
pie plate with pastry rolled ⅛ inch thick. Fill with cherry mixture.
Moisten edge of pastry with cold water. Adjust top crust. Bake in hot
oven (450° F.) 15 minutes; then decrease heat to moderate (350° F.) and
bake 30 minutes longer, or until filling is cooked.


RHUBARB PIE

  1½ tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  1¼ cups sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon melted butter
  3½ cups rhubarb, cut in ½-inch pieces
  1 recipe Pie Crust (page 14)

Combine Minute Tapioca, sugar, salt, butter, and rhubarb; let stand 15
minutes, or while pastry is being made. Line a 9-inch pie plate with
pastry rolled ⅛ inch thick. Fill with rhubarb mixture. Adjust top crust.
Moisten edge of pastry with cold water. Press edges together. Trim off
surplus pastry. Bake in hot oven (450° F.) 15 minutes; then decrease
heat to moderate (350° F.) and bake 30 minutes longer, or until filling
is cooked.

    [Illustration: _For soufflés and omelets that rise high and stay
    high_
    Apricot Omelet ... see recipe on page 17]


FLUFFY OMELET

  2 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  ¾ cup milk
  1 tablespoon butter
  4 egg yolks, beaten until thick and lemon-colored
  4 egg whites, stiffly beaten

Combine Minute Tapioca, salt, pepper, and milk in top of double boiler.
Place over rapidly boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 3 to 5
minutes), and cook 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Add butter. Remove
from boiling water; let cool slightly while beating eggs. Add egg yolks
and mix well. Fold in egg whites. Pour into hot, buttered 10-inch frying
pan. Cook over low flame 3 minutes. Then bake in moderate oven (350° F.)
15 minutes. Omelet is sufficiently cooked when a knife inserted comes
out clean. Fold carefully and serve on hot platter. Serves 6.


APRICOT OMELET

Prepare Fluffy Omelet (above). Spread apricot jam on baked omelet; then
fold and dust with confectioners’ sugar. Serve hot as main dish for
luncheon or supper. Serves 6.


ONION OMELET

  2 tablespoons butter
  1 cup minced onions
  1 teaspoon flour
  ¼ cup water
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  Dash of pepper
  1 recipe Fluffy Omelet (above)

Melt butter; add onions and cook over low flame until onions are tender.
Add flour and mix well; then add water and seasoning and cook 5 minutes.
Prepare omelet. Turn out on hot platter. Place onion mixture between
folded layers. Serves 6.


DUCHESS SOUP

  2 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  1 teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  1 tablespoon minced onion
  4 cups milk
  2 tablespoons butter
  ½ cup grated American cheese
  2 tablespoons chopped parsley

Combine Minute Tapioca, salt, pepper, onion, and milk in top of double
boiler. Place over rapidly boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow
5 to 7 minutes), and cook 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Add butter,
cheese, and parsley, and cook until cheese is melted. Serves 4 to 6.


BEEF BROTH WITH TAPIOCA

  1 pound beef, diced
  7 cups cold water
  1 cup diced carrot
  ¼ cup diced celery
  1 slice small onion
  Small piece bay leaf
  1¼ teaspoons salt
  2½ tablespoons Minute Tapioca

Cover meat with cold water and bring slowly to boiling point. Simmer
gently 3 hours. Add vegetables and seasonings and cook 30 minutes.
Strain. Chill; remove fat. Bring to a boil over direct heat; add Minute
Tapioca gradually and boil briskly about 1 minute, stirring constantly.
Serves 4 to 6.


CELERY SOUP

  1½ cups cut celery stalks and leaves
  1 cup water
  3 cups rich milk and 1 cup chicken or meat broth, or 4 cups rich milk
              and 2 bouillon cubes (chicken flavor)
  3 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  1½ teaspoons salt
  ¼ teaspoon celery salt
  Dash of Cayenne
  ¼ teaspoon scraped onion
  3 tablespoons butter

Cook celery in water 10 minutes. Combine with milk mixture. Minute
Tapioca, salt, celery salt, Cayenne, and onion in top of double boiler.
Place over rapidly boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 5 to 7
minutes), and cook 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Add butter. Serves 4
to 6.


CHEESE SOUFFLÉ

  3 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 cup milk
  1 cup grated American cheese
  3 egg yolks, beaten until thick and lemon-colored
  3 egg whites, stiffly beaten

Combine Minute Tapioca, salt, and milk in top of double boiler. Place
over rapidly boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 3 to 5
minutes), and cook 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Add cheese and stir
until melted. Remove from boiling water; let cool slightly while beating
eggs. Add egg yolks and mix well. Fold in egg whites. Turn into greased
baking dish. Place in pan of hot water and bake in moderate oven (350°
F.) 50 minutes, or until soufflé is firm. Serves 6.


CHICKEN POT PIE

  2½ tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  Dash of pepper
  Dash of paprika
  2 tablespoons melted butter
  2 cups cooked chicken, cut in pieces
  1¼ cups milk or chicken stock
  6 to 8 unbaked baking powder biscuits, rolled ¼ inch thick

Combine ingredients in order given. Turn into greased casserole and bake
in hot oven (425° F.) 25 minutes, stirring mixture twice during first 10
minutes of baking. Place biscuits on top of chicken mixture after it has
baked 10 minutes; return to oven and bake 12 to 15 minutes longer, or
until biscuits are browned. Serve immediately. Serves 4.


LAMB CASSEROLE

  1 pound breast of lamb, cut in small pieces
  ½ cup sliced onion
  1 tablespoon butter
  1 cup boiling water
  1 cup diced carrot
  1 cup diced potatoes
  2 cups tomatoes
  1½ teaspoons salt
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  3 tablespoons Minute Tapioca

Brown lamb and onion in butter; add water; then place in casserole.
Cover and bake in moderate oven (350° F.) 1 hour, or until meat is
tender. Add remaining vegetables and seasonings; cover, and continue
baking 30 minutes, or until vegetables are tender. Sprinkle Minute
Tapioca over top and mix carefully; bake 5 minutes longer. Serves 6.


RAMEKIN OF SALMON

  3 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  ½ teaspoon salt
  Dash of Cayenne
  2 cups flaked salmon
  ½ tablespoon minced parsley
  1 cup milk
  ½ cup fine bread crumbs, buttered

Combine Minute Tapioca, salt, Cayenne, salmon, parsley, and milk. Turn
into greased ramekins or custard cups. Cover with crumbs. Bake in
moderate oven (350° F.) 35 minutes, or until done. Garnish with parsley.
Serve with or without celery, tomato, or pimiento sauce. Serves 6.


CHICKEN CROQUETTES

  3 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon paprika
  2 tablespoons minced green pepper
  2 tablespoons minced pimiento
  ½ cup milk
  ½ cup chicken stock
  1½ cups chopped cooked chicken
  Sifted bread or cracker crumbs
  1 egg, beaten with 3 tablespoons milk and dash of salt

Combine Minute Tapioca, salt, paprika, green pepper, pimiento, milk, and
stock in top of double boiler. Place over rapidly boiling water, bring
to scalding point (allow 3 to 5 minutes), and cook 5 minutes, stirring
frequently. Add chicken and mix thoroughly. Chill—mixture thickens as it
cools. Shape into balls. Roll in crumbs, dip in egg mixture, then roll
again in crumbs. Fry in deep fat (390° F.) 1 minute, or until golden
brown. Drain on soft, unglazed paper. Serve with creamed mushrooms and
red currant jelly. Garnish with parsley. Makes 8 croquettes. Turkey may
be substituted for chicken in this recipe.


SAVORY MEAT LOAF

  2 thin 2-inch slices salt pork, diced
  2 tablespoons minced onion
  2 pounds round beef, ground
  ½ cup Minute Tapioca
  2½ teaspoons salt
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  2 cups strained canned tomatoes (juice and pulp)

Dry out salt pork, add onion, and cook until golden brown. Add pork,
onion, and drippings to other ingredients and mix thoroughly. Bake in
loaf pan in hot oven (450° F.) 15 minutes; then decrease heat to
moderate (350° F.) and bake 30 minutes longer, or until done. Serve hot
or cold. Garnish with parsley or water cress. Serves 10.


HAM LOAF

  ½ cup Minute Tapioca
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  1 tablespoon minced onion
  1 pound lean ham, ground
  1 pound lean pork, ground
  2 cups milk

Combine ingredients in order given. Bake in loaf pan in hot oven (450°
F.) 15 minutes; then decrease heat to moderate (350° F.) and bake 45
minutes longer, or until done. Rub mixing bowl with garlic before
mixing, if desired. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with parsley. Serves 10.

    [Illustration: _Meat loaves and croquettes that keep their shape,
    yet are moist...._
    Savory Meat Loaf ... see recipe on page 20]


VANILLA ICE CREAM

  3 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  2 cups milk
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  3 tablespoons light corn syrup
  2 tablespoons sugar
  2 egg whites
  1 cup cream, whipped
  1 tablespoon vanilla

Add Minute Tapioca to milk in top of double boiler. Place over rapidly
boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 3 to 5 minutes), and cook
5 minutes, stirring frequently. Strain hot mixture, stirring (not
rubbing) through very fine sieve, onto ⅓ cup sugar, salt, and corn
syrup. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Chill. Add 2 tablespoons sugar to
egg whites and beat until stiff; fold into cold tapioca mixture. Fold in
cream and vanilla. Turn into freezing tray of automatic refrigerator;
freeze as rapidly as possible—3 to 4 hours usually required. Or turn
mixture into container, cover tightly, and pack in equal parts ice and
salt 2 to 3 hours. Makes 1 quart. If desired, reduce vanilla to 1½
teaspoons; fold in 1 cup Baker’s Coconut, toasted and crumbled.


CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM

  3 tablespoons Minute Tapioca
  2 squares Baker’s Unsweetened Chocolate, cut in pieces
  2 cups milk
  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  4 tablespoons light corn syrup
  2 tablespoons sugar
  2 egg whites
  1 cup cream, whipped
  2 teaspoons vanilla

Add Minute Tapioca and chocolate to milk in top of double boiler. Place
over rapidly boiling water, bring to scalding point (allow 3 to 5
minutes), and cook 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Beat with rotary egg
beater to blend all ingredients, if necessary. Strain hot mixture,
stirring (not rubbing) through very fine sieve, onto ½ cup sugar, salt,
and corn syrup. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Chill. Add 2 tablespoons
sugar to egg whites and beat until stiff; fold into cold tapioca
mixture. Fold in cream and vanilla. Turn into freezing tray of automatic
refrigerator and freeze as rapidly as possible—3 to 4 hours usually
required. Or turn mixture into container, cover tightly, and pack in
equal parts ice and salt 2 to 3 hours. Makes 1 quart ice cream.




                              _F_OOTNOTES


[1]Everything, except egg whites and flavoring, goes in together!

[2]Yes—5 minutes. It used to take 15!

[3]Remember, that it thickens to a glorious creaminess as it cools.

[4]5 minutes—that’s all the cooking this new Minute Tapioca needs.

[5]Mixture clears and thickens as it cools.

[6]A lovely looking, grand-tasting dessert. And one that you can vary
    the whole year round.




                                _F_REE!
                       A COOK BOOK OF 85 RECIPES!


  —Dozens of tapioca creams and fruit tapiocas!
  —A score of baked tapioca desserts!
  —4 ice creams that can be frozen without stirring!
  —8 fruit pies that keep the juice where it belongs!
  —8 soups more easily made than ever before!
  —21 grand and very economical main dishes!
  —New menus for all sorts of needs!

  Get your copy today. Mail the coupon and learn of _all_ the wonderful
  things you can make with the NEW Minute Tapioca!


GENERAL FOODS, Dept. MT, Battle Creek, Mich.

Please send me—FREE—new recipe booklet and NEW Minute Tapioca sample.

_Name_ ___________________________

_Street_ _________________________

_City_ _________ _State_ ______

               FILL IN COMPLETELY—PRINT NAME AND ADDRESS
       In Canada, address: General Foods, Ltd., Cobourg, Ontario




    [Illustration: MINUTE TAPIOCA]

All tapioca is made from the root of the cassava plant—a plant raised in
far-off Java.

Only _Minute Tapioca_, however, is processed from tapioca flour in
_America_. Here, in a clean, sunny _American_ factory in the Berkshires,
under clean, sanitary _American_ conditions, the cassava flour is
washed, delicately cooked, and packaged.

For cleanliness’ sake, as well as easier cooking, insist on _Minute_
Tapioca.

                        MINUTE TAPIOCA CO., INC.
                      _Division of General Foods_
                         ORANGE, MASSACHUSETTS




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

—Sidenotes are represented as headings or footnotes, as seemed
  appropriate.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FASTER WAYS TO FAVORITE DISHES WITH
THE NEW MINUTE TAPIOCA ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
